---
author: smspillaz
comments: true
date: 2010-06-25 07:24:39+00:00
layout: post
slug: compiz-0-9-and-gcc-4-5
title: Compiz 0.9 and GCC 4.5
wordpress_id: 632
---

Hi everyone,

It appears that several uses of git master and distributions with GCC/G++ 4.5, such as openSUSE 11.3 and Arch Linux are experiencing random crashes when loading or unloading plugins. We _**think**_(*) this is a bug in GCC/G++ and I am currently drafting a testcase to confirm this and also a workaround for the bug. At the moment, in order to avoid this crash, you will need to use an older version of GCC/G++, such as GCC 4.4.3. For Arch Linux you can get this from the AUR with "yaourt gcc4", selection 6, and I would imagine a package is available for openSUSE. When compiling, press 't' in ccmake to get advanced options and change the compiler executable paths to your older compiler.

_Technical Details of what we think the bug is:_
We use a static variable within a template class in order to reference count it, so whenever a new class of some template is instantiated, the reference count increases (since the variable is static and is effectively global, only accessed with the operator of scope (::)). However, when new plugins are opened using ltdl, the constructor for this static variable can be called again, and so the reference count will decrease to zero. This creates a dangerous situation where  if any more of those classes go away, then core will think all of them are gone and start removing bits necessary to make those classes work. I shall post a testcase in this bug as soon as it is ready.
